Welcome back everybody.
I'm here right.
We left off last time with the javascript file open.
Again we defined the sections of code that we actually have to code out so let's get started with just
the restart Game button.
First off let's make the variable let's grab it from the document object model I'm going to say call
it restart and it's going to be equal to the documents and then I will use queries selector on the document
and I'm going to grab the tag that I made for it or excuse not the tag the ID.
I could have also done a button Texas's Deely button on here but lushest do hash tag B.
So if I look at my main file here I gave it the IDB.
So that looks good.
They don't want to grab all the squares to create a variable called squares and then offset that equal
to documents query selector queries selector.
Now let's have it the query selector.
All because I want all the squares and that's going to be the same as all the table cells and something
to note here is that I spelt squares wrong.
So there we go.
OK.
So those are all squares and then I want to create a function that clears all the squares.
So how do we do that.
Well I'll say function.
Now let's give this function the name clipboard and for this I'll have a for loop that goes for every
cell or everything in the squares and then it just makes the content blank.
So let me show what I mean by that.
We'll say for and the array we're going to be playing with is the squares array.
And then I can click to the activate that.
So from I will zero all the way to I less than squares that length increasing I'm going to grab the
current cell and then change its text content.
To be blank and that's all I'm doing to clear the board.
So what is actually doing will remember queery selector all is going to return all the table cells and
that I have saved as squares and then we're going to have a function called clipboard that basically
loops through everything in squares every element.
And what is basically acting like an array is not quite a javascript or array but it's acting like one
and then we can just say squares I that text contents and then set that equal to blank.
Let's test to see that this clipboard function works by adding an event listener to restart remember
restart is just our actual restart.
So I will say restart at events.
Listener
and upon a click it's going to call the function clipboard.
So let's save this in right now I have an X in there so I will refresh the page.
It's blank right now.
So if I click restart I'm not going to see any difference.
So I will come back to my main page T.M. and add something to one of these cells.
Let's give it an X.
Refresh my page.
I see that x.
Now if I click restart it was cleared.
So looks like everything's working.
So I'm going to come back here and then clear this so we can refresh this page.
So far we have a function that successfully loops through every cell in the table and clears it makes
its text content nothing.
All right.
Now we've reached what's probably the most challenging part of this project which is getting the board
to display X's and O's or blanks depending on if we click on a cell.
So how can we actually do this.
Well the way you could probably do it given what you know so far is to come back to this H.T. metafile
give each cell a specific ID and then come back to javascript and add event listeners for each particular
ID checking to see if it's blank X or O and then changing the marker depending on where it's been clicked.
So that's one way of doing it.
The official solutions have a way that uses the javascript this keyword that is used in a way we haven't
seen before.
So I'm going to show you first solution that you have the capability to come up with on your own.
However it's repetitive.
Then after that I'll show you the solution that's more advanced and uses this keyword.
But it's a little cleaner and uses a for loop.
So let's start off with the most basic solution we can think of and we'll just run it for one cell.
I'm going to give this cell an ID of one and then coming back to my javascript going to make some new
lines for myself and we're going to make a variable called cell 1 and have it be equal to the documents
weary selector and then we'll give it the ID of one.
And now we're going to say sell one we'll add an event listener to it.
So there's our event listener and upon click
we'll have it do something.
So we'll say function and we'll grab someone and we'll say it's tecs content is going to be equal to
X..
So this is the most basic way we could do this.
Let me refresh the page and make sure is actually working.
So now so when I click on it it becomes x.
If I hit restart then it gets blank.
So right now if I click on it it only turns X once.
So let's add the functionality where it cycles through blank X and 0.
So we can add some logic here in order to make that happen.
I'm going to say if sell one that text content is equal to blank.
Remember that's how it starts off as then someone text content set that equal to x
LCF
cell one that text content is equal to X. Then I'm going to say.
So one text content becomes equal to 0 and then else.
Well we're going to be doing here is setting it back equal to blink.
So I'll say so on text content is equal to blink.
So this should effectively cycle through X's and O's and let's make sure we actually got the logic right
here.
If I see that the text content is blank I'm going to set the text content to X if when I click on it
I see that the current text content is X..
Well then Ill set it be set to zero or 0 and then if it's neither blank nor X then it must be 0.
So I will cycle it back to being blank.
OK let's save this and refresh see if it works.
So here click on this right now.
X.
Click on it again it becomes 0.
Looking at one more time and it's blank.
Great.
So this is what you have the capability and knowledge of doing right now technically then could have
just copied and pasted this eight more times and changed cell one to cell to cell 3 cell 4 et cetera.
And that's how you could solve this problem.
OK so this is the solution you would have probably come up with and you would just copy and paste this
maybe eight more times and that's one way of doing it without using the this keyword.
And that's one of the most basic ways of doing it.
However it really violates the dry principle of coding which is don't repeat yourself.
So we're going to be doing is showing you how you can use the this keyword to do something really similar
except not have it be repeated so often.
So I'm going to create a function and I will call this function change marker and it's essentially going
to be a very generic version of what we just wrote.
I'm going to say if and then I'm going to use the this keyword text content is equal to x excuse me
is equal to blank then we'll end up doing is saying this text content and there should have been triple
equal sign and then we'll reset this to be X then we'll have an LCF and this is going to say if this
text content is equal to x then I'm going to set this text content equal to 0 and then else if that's
the case then I won't say this text content and set it back equal to being blank.
All right so that's the most generic version of this and it's using this keyword and this is inside
of a function which you haven't really seen before we've only seen this keyword inside a method inside
an object but a function is pretty similar to a method so hopefully this is making sense to you so far
especially since we just ran the more specific version of this.
This is basically the generic version.
So we need to do is add this as an event listener for all the squares.
So I will say for.
And then I will again loop through squares and then I'm going to say Dot add in events listener and
upon click.
I'm going to call change marker.
And now let's refresh our page and see if this works.
So it's working on the first one.
And now I can see it's working on any of them.
So this is the tic tac toe project and that's really all you have to do.
And now when I click restart it gets cleared.
That's the most generic version of solving that issue.
X's and O's.
Would I expect you to solve this on your own with this solution.
Maybe.
Probably not.
It's a little more advanced and it's a little beyond the scope of what we covered in the sections of
the course about javascript but don't worry in the next section we're going to be covering J.
Queery which is going to give you the skills to naturally come up with a much smoother and better way
of accessing document object model material or properties.
OK.
I hope you enjoy the project.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.